Geographical and societal qualities of countries in the world
================
by Data Pirates

## Summary

The data set that we decided to analyse for this project is called
‘Countries of the world’. The data set has a variety of information
about different aspects of countries in the world between the year 1970
and the year 2017. It is made up of data from the US government
specifically the CIA World Factbook. We decided to rename our variables
using snake_case in order to make them more accessible to use and to
evaluate.

Our main aim in this project was to research whether there is a
relationship between various geographical, economic and societal
qualities across the different countries. We hypothesized that there to
be at least a weak relationship between quality of life and other
qualities of the country such as economic and physical qualities.
Therefore we expected that our results would show at least some
correlation between variables which would then in turn support our
hypothesis. In this write up we will develop on the statistical
techniques we used during the course of this project and whether or not
we can conclude that our initial hypothesis is correct.

The first thing we did was to answer our research question was to it break down into 3 components: 
1. How strong is the correlation between
economic and societal qualities? 
2. How impactful are geographical
qualities on the development of societal qualities? 
3. What is the relationship between geographical qualities and economic qualities?

We then decided to perform some linear regression in order to explore
the relationship between GDP per capita and deathrate +
infant_mortality. We saw that the R^2 value was 0.432. This in turn
showed us that there is a relatively positive relationship between GDP
per capita and the death rate + the infant mortality rate.

We then wanted to show the difference in economic sectors depending on
the continent. We used the agriculture, industry and service variable
and saw that America had the highest value for service but the lowest
value for agriculture. Meanwhile, Africa had the lowest value for
service but the highest value for agriculture. There was also quite a
significant difference between the continent which had the highest value
for service (North America) and the continent which had the lowest value
for service (Africa). This shows that there is a relationship between
continent and certain economic sectors.

(add in description of other plots)

we also wanted to explore the relationship between GDP per capita and
the proportion of crops being grown in comparison to the land available
to grow crops. This showed…(After you tidy the graph we can fill this
bit out)

In conclusion, we can say that….

## Presentation

Our presentation can be found [here](presentation/presentation.html).

## Data

Include a citation for your data here. See
<http://libraryguides.vu.edu.au/c.php?g=386501&p=4347840> for guidance
on proper citation for datasets. If you got your data off the web, make
sure to note the retrieval date.

## References

List any references here. You should, at a minimum, list your data
source.
